### You're not surfing the net, you're drowning in it! A practicum for young intellectuals in the internet era

The world wide web is celebrated for opening up information and communication, but as we will learn, informational and communicative power on the web is only enjoyed by those who have the resources required to use it. Thus, part of this course is about imparting to you the resources and tools required to even access what is uniquely interesting (and hopefully empowering for you) in the contemporary politics of the media.

All students must have a personal blog, a twitter account, a twitter client, and an RSS reader. Don't freak out: all of these things are free, easy to learn, and will make your life easier and more powerful after just a little bit of investment up front. The first two are becoming absolutely necessary for anyone who wishes to have a voice in the public sphere, and the second two are necessary if one wishes to actually increase one's information and knowledge in a powerful and effective way.

 If you don't have a blog and a twitter account, then you basically don't have an independent voice on the web, where vast amounts of information and communication and therefore politics takes place; if you don't have a voice, then you can only be a passive listener at best, which has nothing to do with politics. If you don't have a twitter client and an RSS reader, then you can't control your own media diet and you won't be surfing the net so much as it's surfing you. The "information superhighway" does not automatically increase one's information and knowledge flows; on the contrary, the standard, naive internet life of most people probably decreases and deforms their daily flow of information and knowledge relative to pre-internet social learning. (Google and Facebook are driven by algorithms which only give you what you already know and like, and which make sure that your voice is only shared with others who already know and like you, probably limiting and *perverting* more than enhancing one's flows of information and communication.) Ergo, because you are here to learn about the politics of the media, a blog, twitter account, twitter client, and RSS reader are implicit pre-requisites for even having a chance at learning something about the politics of the media today.

**A blog**: Any blogging platform will do, including any blog you might already run. If you've never blogged and you're intimidated then I would recommend using Tumblr, which is very easy to use, stylish, and has a huge community of bloggers. Tumblr blogs tend toward shorter and quicker reads, photos, quotes, etc., and Tumblr in general encourages "reblogging" posts from other Tumblr blogs on your own. If you write more frequently or plan to blog more ambitiously in or after this course, you might want to select a platform that gives you more options and control over your content. Wordpress is perhaps the most popular and powerful platform, although it can be a little confusing and the free version puts ads on your posts. Typepad and Blogger are both perfectly good and commonly used competitors. You might also explore newer blogging platforms which seem to emphasize superior style and community engagement, such as Medium and Svbte. Really up to you.

**A twitter account**. Pretty straightforward. Sign up at twitter.com.

**A twitter client**. A twitter "client" is just a third-party application for managing and reading twitter feeds. I recommend Tweetdeck, but there are a few other popular ones such as Tweetbot and Hootsuite.

**An RSS reader**. "RSS" stands for "Rich Site Summary" or "Really Simple Syndication", and it's just a simple protocol that turns websites into feeds so that readers can subscribe and recieve updates from all of their favorite websites all in one place. That one place is an RSS reader, which is basically just a big self-designed newspaper composed of all the websites you want to follow.